For
Danny Park: all right. So data strategy. So let's let's tackle this. This is I I I I live This I think I mentioned last time I I live in this stuff the today. Um! It's. It's pretty exciting,
Danny Park: so hopefully that could share my excitement, and it's not too boring as I go through this. But before we get into data strategy we're going to go into some concept that we already covered.
Danny Park: And the good thing is, we covered
Danny Park: basically all the major concepts that we need to be be very aware of as we are building out a data strategy from
Danny Park: provisioning
Danny Park: to implementation. Okay, So Let's go through those slides. Let's go to the reminder slides. I like to call them really quickly. So first reminder slide is the big B's. We always have to keep this in our minds when we talk about data.
Danny Park: In fact, data at any level,
Danny Park: be it strategic leadership or tactical,
Danny Park: we have to be talking about or thinking about um,
Danny Park: the the big V's: Okay. So i'm not going to go through it again, but just to just keep this in mind when I start, talk about the data strategy. Okay, so big these one of them we have to keep really close to our minds as we have this discussion,
Danny Park: right? So the next concept,
Danny Park: our framework is going to be around the data life cycle.
Danny Park: Okay, So Big V's: and also the data lifecycle, right? We talked about this, too right? We talked about how data is not only
Danny Park: um
Danny Park: acquired a collective from a company, they do
Danny Park: things with that data,
Danny Park: and they based on the things that they do, we what we call data transformation or data wrangling. It creates additional different types of data that we share downstream.
Danny Park: Okay, So let's keep this close to
Danny Park: uh mind as well as you talk it through.
Danny Park: All right. So then, next slide. Let's go to now the architecture. Okay. Now let's Now we don't have to know the details of
Danny Park: big data, architecture, right? And data models, right as as those on the leadership side. We don't necessarily have to be in the details of things. We just have to have to be aware of all the ingredients that we need to to realize
Danny Park: or maintain an actual architecture. Okay, so
Danny Park: just to i'll quickly recap this, because, you know, there's a lot going on, and and
Danny Park: I think it's been a while since we last talked about this. So
Danny Park: the architecture it's collecting data from several different sources, right? Which ties back to our
Danny Park: Our. V's. The big V's.
Danny Park: Then the data is collected and based on the desired outcomes we want from the data
Danny Park: which ties back to that data strategy we'll talk about soon. We do things to that data.
Danny Park: Right? So in this we call it data pre-processing, or the terms for it is data transformation or the terms for that is, data wrangling
Danny Park: right or some other terms for the same concept pre-processing transformation uh wrangling there's a new term now, which is called data ingestion. Okay. So if you hear those terms. Just understand that you're taking the raw data from the sources, and you're doing something with them
Danny Park: based on a specific business
Danny Park: purpose or a desired outcome.
Danny Park: Then, after you start preparing and getting that data, you're going to put it into your data model, right? We talked about how data models
Danny Park: these are These Are
Danny Park: their schemas
Danny Park: right? Just think of like an excel table, And these are the something These are things that we have to plan as well. Right is that there's a separate. This is part of the data strategy. So before we really talk about where we're going to get the data and what we're going to do with it. We have to figure out, hey? We have to be able to store that stuff right? So, for example, we gave last time was that if we're collecting revenue
Danny Park: as a data point, but our data model doesn't have a column for revenue. Right? Let's use again. Let's use an excel table as the easiest example to understand this right? If the excel table doesn't have revenue, then how can we get it in? How do we store it. We can't.
Danny Park: We have to have an area or a column that's going to capture that data for cold revenue.
Danny Park: Right? So data model is very important. We have to have the model.
Danny Park: Then, once you have the model,
Danny Park: then we could start parsing out the different data sets for the different purposes that we discussed earlier, right? So if we wanted a set of data to do some analytical work, we're going to have a a subset,
Danny Park: or in this instance, data set one. That is a subset of the larger data model,
Danny Park: right? And data set two which is a subset of the same data model
Danny Park: it's going to be, for it looks like some type of machine learning
Danny Park: algorithm and another data set here for another type of machine learning. Algorithm right? Then we publish those and we talked about the machine learning model that would sit in between here before it gets published. But the point here is this is that this data model here
Danny Park: what we call a common data model.
Danny Park: So right now, in many leading organizations, it's the race to see who can create a common data model
Danny Park: that can be used to service
Danny Park: right, all of the downstream business purposes
Danny Park: and technology applications. Okay,
Danny Park: And then
Danny Park: and between that big data architecture. So we call this. The data operating model
Danny Park: for data. Ops: right
Danny Park: right in this this term. Calls it. Did it announcely. I hope you guys get the point, though. Like to be honest in technology, these things are really simple common sense. But there's so many terms running around the flying around the same thing. People think it's like they don't know enough. But to be honest, like people know, plenty
Danny Park: is that people are making that other people from different places of the world are making them do terms for the same concept. So this this, this image is calling it data analysis, layer, but in reality we call it data. Ops right, or data flow or data flow operations, whatever the company wants to call it.
Danny Park: What's the point here, though?
Danny Park: Right? We notice that there are two layers that sit on top and below, or, in other words, supports this operating model. First one is the governance layer, so in other words, governance it. Governance.
Danny Park: Right. Governance means Um, the risk man, You know, we all know what governance is really So basically the risk management side of data. So, for example,
Danny Park: and the easiest example is to use this regulations right? If there is data.
Danny Park: Um,
Danny Park: let's use a
Danny Park: It's just test example. So this
Danny Park: there's a type of data called fifty six hundred and seventy-one category, fifty, six, seventy. One says that that data
Danny Park: is, protect the data that cannot leave the United States. So if there is a us entity working on with that classified data or classification of data,
Danny Park: they can outsource it as send it to some offshore location. So, for example, let's say a governor. A A company has an operating model
Danny Park: where part of the work it gets done in. Let's say, um Singapore,
if that if that work
Danny Park: that's done in Singapore requires seventy-five to seventy-five, sixty-two data.
Danny Park: That's bad right So so I made a mistake, because you can't send that data over to Singapore which means that you can't do that process because you don't have the data for it. So the governance that rule that exists governance ensures that rules and other risks
Danny Park: are captured, so they don't enter the data pipeline, because if seventy, five, sixty-two data, fifty I keep saying if you numbers, I I forgot what the number is i'm gonna go with fifty-six fifty-six, seventy-two. I'll stick to that if fifty-six, seventy-two data makes it into the data operating model
Danny Park: let's say it's ex in the comedy of the model,
Danny Park: and someone by mistake
Danny Park: sends a portion of that, puts it into a data set and sends that to to Singapore.
Danny Park: That company will get in trouble once they get audited at the data level,
Danny Park: right? So they broke a bunch of laws. It is a huge fine. So what the governance layer does, is it? It produces several different types of rules that you could embed into the operating model layer
Danny Park: that when the system comes across that type of classified data in this, in the in the common data model it will prevent you from actually sending it to offshore location.
Danny Park: So that's why the governance layer. One example of why the governance layer is very important,
Danny Park: right?
Danny Park: The other layer is a persistence layer. So this layer is dealing with massive storage so big data storage because it can you imagine the size of this common data model that services multiple different business purposes? So that's going to get sorted somewhere, and it also includes the data services. So when you're moving data around from one
Danny Park: from one application to another,
Danny Park: or from one middleware to a end system, or even collecting data from one platform to your ultimate. Let's say that you ultimate. But let's say your your um data wrangling engine,
Danny Park: right? All those activities are done by this persistence layer which includes those services. Right services, means that it's It's it's. It's providing that capability to move data from one place to another, and doing some type of processing on it.
Danny Park: So we have to keep this in mind as well. This what I just explained not remember, not in too detail, but just understand what we mean by architecture and data models.
Danny Park: Okay, So we have three. We have three things. So far we have to keep in our minds as we talk about data strategy. So now let's get into data strategy.
Danny Park: So what is data strategy, right? And people always have this question around like, What is it so?
Danny Park: Luckily we talked about it already, right? So we talked about the three concepts. But here's the other concept. We talked about right people process data, technology. What's that?
Danny Park: That's our Sis information system components,
Danny Park: right? We also have to keep that in mind. And we talked about how, if there is misalignment in one component,
Danny Park: it has a ripple effect against another. And if there is misalignment in the components, it's your strategy will fall apart.
Danny Park: Okay. So a a quick example of
Danny Park: a data strategy related uh information system component alignment would be, you know, if let's go back to here. All right.
Danny Park: Let's: I will use a a data set to um
Danny Park: people component. So we have a data set, and
Danny Park: one of our business purposes is to take data sets and feed it into a unsupervised learning model.
Danny Park: Right? Well, sure, if we had a technology and the data to do it, that's fine. But we also need the subject might experts. We talked about machine learning how this a lot of context and other things are not captured in the data sets.
Danny Park: So we need to make sure that we have the right person in place who's going to facilitate the the effective and efficient learning of whatever model or platform we're trying to teach.
Danny Park: So if there's a misalignment between the people and the data right, we Don't have what we want. We don't get to desired outcome. So our strategy, our strategy of, for example, in this example, creating an application that does some artificial intelligence right would not be met.
Danny Park: So that's why you see here when we talk about the data strategy,
Danny Park: there's three main pillars
Danny Park: to the core data strategy. There is a data governance strategy, right, which includes people and process. So when we go back here, this governance layer includes process
Danny Park: right, meaning that, hey? If this is fifty-six, seventy-two data, the process is to check to see who the ultimate receiver is, and if the receiver resides out on outside of the United States, prevent that data from leaving
Danny Park: right. So that's a process, even by a rule, a governance rule so process. And then the people Well, we need the people who understand the business regulations to help us build those in. So, for example, if we don't have the right people who don't understand
Danny Park: sharing data across territories and the rules around them, then we won't be able to build that rule. If we don't have that rule because we don't have the right person, we don't have the right process and then go ahead. It creates
Danny Park: risk.
Danny Park: We get fined and our data strategy falls apart.
Danny Park: Okay,
Danny Park: So that's one teller, The other pillar is data analytics. So we have to have a strategy around how we go into collect data and how we're going to transform it. And that means we have to get a better understanding of what types of data to collect
Danny Park: what technologies we need in place to transform them to get it into our common data model.
Danny Park: Right?
Danny Park: So those are the two pillars that are heavily involved in the data analytics strategy pillar.
Danny Park: And the third pillar is a data management strategy pillar. Right here, again, it's data technology. But in our infrastructure model. Here the data that we're cared we care about at the data level is the storage
Danny Park: and the management and the governance. So these two layers up here,
Danny Park: Governance and the persistence layer is what the data management strategy
Danny Park: pillar is. So these three strategies together
Danny Park: when they are
Danny Park: put together in an integrated way. That's what we call data strategy. So what do I? Why do I bring this up?
Danny Park: I've heard, and I've heard this mistake many times,
Danny Park: especially, you know, sometimes from some even technology and business leaders who don't, who don't understand what not. They don't understand, but they have an incomplete picture of data strategy
Danny Park: sometimes that people talk about data strategy. All I hear them talk about is the governance side, and they go. Oh, that's our data strategy. I go. Well, no, it can't be a data strategy because you just have governance. What about the data analytics, indeed? Imagine because those two other pillars are going to help you figure out
Danny Park: the rest of your architecture that you need. You have to ask those questions. You can't just ask about the governance. What about all this other stuff that happens
Danny Park: right on the on the flip side. Sometimes I hear people say, Oh, i'll data strategy is, and they share something, but It's only residing in pillar, too.
Danny Park: So okay, you have. You have the mechanism down here, the persistence layer. But okay, what are you? What are you doing
Danny Park: like, What's the what are you trying to do? What's the point of having an empty envelope,
Danny Park: if you that I put anything in the envelope,
Danny Park: or you don't know what to put in it. What's the point?
Danny Park: Right?
Danny Park: So when we talk about building out a data strategy, we have to. First I a good way to start. What I used to do in the day when I was building these out
Danny Park: is I would have
Danny Park: just literally a a a document that has these three pillars side by side,
Danny Park: and across the three pillars I would have like, Imagine one, two, and three as three pillars, and then across them I would have people process data and Texas across all three of them,
Danny Park: and that would help me frame up as i'm talking about and think about all the ingredients I need from a people perspective. Um! Keeping in mind that I have to make sure that the people I am looking to use or identify to build up my governance. I mean my my data strategy. I'm making sure I am getting the people who have governance expertise.
Danny Park: People who have data analytics, expertise. People have the data management expertise because this day and age because it the the tech stack,
Danny Park: it's so voluminous, and we'll talk about the tech stack in a couple of weeks right in our last session.
Danny Park: It's so voluminous.
Danny Park: You have to really get specific as to who you really targeting
Danny Park: right? Because, like if you're a Microsoft enabled company, right? You're gonna want a specific type of experience to handle your data management and storage If you're running Microsoft Suite
Danny Park: right? And usually with Microsoft, you're running the actual end to end.
Danny Park: Architecture ops right. So it's
Danny Park: doing that really helped me like stand out when it came to showcasing my strategic thinking right? So three pillars, data, governance strategy, data, analytic strategy and data management strategy as a three pillars. And I would line process people tech data across. I'll start filling in the ingredients
Danny Park: to make sure I have. The whole is the picture of what I need.
Danny Park: Okay,
Danny Park: any questions. So far,
Danny Park: what I'm covering.
Danny Park: All right, let's keep going
Danny Park: right. So that's data strategy, which is the the the the integration of the three pillars. Okay,
Danny Park: then, the next thing we have to keep in mind, right? So for so for keep memor, keep continue. Keep these on your mind in in your minds. Okay. The next thing of this is asking ourselves is okay,
Danny Park: what? What are the best practices, or what are the core principles that I need my data strategy to align to to make sure
Danny Park: that I have a
Danny Park: a very foolproof, protected and actionable strategy. Okay, And these are seven principles that I have used in the past to build up my strategy. And this is really It's really helpful, right? So some of these are redundant, but the parts that are redundant is because those are the most important.
Danny Park: All right. So first one is governance right to develop a program, to ensure compliance of key step in the data life cycle.
Danny Park: So when I would see when I let's say I go back to here. I'm building out my data strategy right? I'm thinking through it from these three pillars when I get to
Danny Park: the people side at the data governance strategy piece, I'm trying to ask myself, Okay,
Danny Park: what are all of the different governance rules that will affect me
Danny Park: right, based on
Danny Park: the business problem trying to solve
Danny Park: right? So if i'm trying to build, let's say, for example, i'm trying to build a tax technology
Danny Park: right for a a global.
Danny Park: So let's say, for a global conglomerate who needs to file taxes in multiple jurisdictions,
Danny Park: right?
Danny Park: The easy example for that governance would be. Oh, I need someone who understands the actual tax data
Danny Park: and governance rules will go go in and meaning the governmental rules of each of the Territories that I want to sell my application in. So, for example, if my tax application is meant to do a corporate tax return for a German company. I need to understand how Germany's data rules apply,
Danny Park: and also what their tax rules are,
Danny Park: and so on and so forth for all the other territories that I want my platform or my tax technology to service.
Danny Park: Right? So I have to have that principle in mind of okay, Governance
Danny Park: means holistically driven by a business purpose. What are my rules?
Danny Park: Right?
Danny Park: Then? That's again naturally feed it into my second principle of data content, right
Danny Park: in my tax technology platform. I don't want to collect data that I don't need
Danny Park: right. I'm trying to tax.
Danny Park: But then why would I collect social media data?
Danny Park: I don't need to
Danny Park: right. So I have to understand the data content. I'm: actually that's going to make my business
Danny Park: purpose, or or des that outcome satisfies
Danny Park: all right. So now, once I think about the governance rules. Right? So I know all the rules there in place I have to divide by. And now I have an understanding of just the specific type of content I need to collect.
Danny Park: Then that's when I start thinking about. Okay, how do I ensure the quality of that data
Danny Park: for my tax and Ija platform
Danny Park: right like How? How? What's the last of the data coming in? Right?
Danny Park: What different types of files can I expect? Right? Our client our clients gonna want to do Pdfs and or Semi-pdf, Send me email, send me excel files. What are they gonna send me stuff in or do I want to put a limit behind it.
Danny Park: How do I check for system veracity? So how do I know that? How do I? How can I get the application to check for data accuracy as it collects it as it processes it right. So i'm
Danny Park: thinking about all these big v's,
Danny Park: and finding a way or trying to solution away to make sure that the platform I'm building is going to make sure that my quality is my data that comes in. The system is of good quality.
Danny Park: So after I talk about that and have that principle
Danny Park: pushed upon, the next principle of the data strategy I have to keep in mind is that Well, the data that I collect in my platform
Danny Park: in my system,
Danny Park: right? It has to be a set as accessible
Danny Park: right. But data access right is not just talking about?
Danny Park: Is it available for people to to
Danny Park: get to acquire?
Danny Park: But is it in a format in a way that's understandable to them right. So each example would be this: Let's say, my text technology platform collected all the data
Danny Park: right? And it's presenting it to stakeholders.
Danny Park: Would it make sense to present that data and literally bits and bytes like ones and zeros.
Danny Park: Or let's say I, a German opens my tax system to read that, you know, get access to tax data, and for some reason the translation I did have a translation thing, a mechanism in there, and it was presenting it in French, not German.
Danny Park: So data is accessed, sure, but it's not understood.
Danny Park: So that's a very important principle of the data access to principle
Danny Park: all right.
Danny Park: Next one is obviously data management,
Danny Park: right? So going back to my tax technology platform, we kind of talked about this which relates to governance is, if let's say, let's say,
Danny Park: a Us. User
Danny Park: has a set of data that's fifty, six, seventy, two,
Danny Park: and then the person trying to send it to the German counterparts.
Danny Park: Right? That systems data management, the platform, I mean the tech tax analogy platform should prevent me from sending, should be able to look the metadata
Danny Park: at the data I'm sending, and the metadata
Danny Park: shows that it's fifty, six, seventy, two.
Danny Park: Then the platform should go. Okay, Who is Danny trying to send this to? Oh, it's a German entity and the system, the platform should say no,
Danny Park: and then block it. So there's data management going on
Danny Park: right. The next principle of data strategy would be that the data that you are presenting
Danny Park: or that you're you're using the bar with data strategy it has to be. It should be able to to inform decision making.
Danny Park: Okay.
Danny Park: So you imagine the information system capability.
Danny Park: So that's another principle a did. This strategy needs to have
Danny Park: who abide by right.
Danny Park: And the last one, obviously is analytics.
Danny Park: So when I when I was building out my data strategy after i'm building out, you know the three pillars and the and the systems components across that, filling out all the ingredients
Danny Park: the entire time, as i'm. Built, as i'm, on building up the ingredients and staffing and and thinking of ways to um execute on it. I'm always referring, referring
Danny Park: to these seven principles.
Danny Park: Right? I'm asking myself, Okay, I I have. I have the people, and I want to put this process in.
Danny Park: If I put this process in. Is this process going to ensure data quality
Danny Park: right? Is it? Is it going to um
Danny Park: be able to be accessible so like everything that you do when it comes to planning out your data strategy across the the information systems you always have to ask yourselves these questions as it relates to that particular
Danny Park: activity or or
Danny Park: a component trying to build in.
Danny Park: Okay, very important. And so again, i'll stop here for any questions. Anyone have any questions.
Flamur Mjeku: I have a question. Um! It seems like there's a a a lot of lot of these activities
Flamur Mjeku: uh that we have on a on our principal data strategy.
Flamur Mjeku: Now let's say if that entity in Germany
Flamur Mjeku: wants to translate their data from English to German right. Would that impact the data system?
Flamur Mjeku: And uh, what is this? I mean, What are the uh of activities that need to follow, to to translate that data from English to German, so
Danny Park: do they have to go through the governance first, like. No, no, it depends it it no your it it. It depends on the rules and Regs related to the data. So, for example,
Danny Park: translation by itself is fine. But what the governance people would say, what I would ask is okay,
Danny Park: let's say it's fifty-six. The It says six hundred and seventy-two data. My my question would be hey? So Governance also has a place a business purpose, I would say, Hey, it takes time and money to translate things to German. What's your business purpose behind translating data that a German person should never be reading
Danny Park: right, and if they can't justify that cost or business purpose as to why that translation should happen, then as a data strategy, it should be like. No, we're not going to do it,
Danny Park: because that defeats the value of of the stress. So they data the data strategy. And ultimately, where these seven principles, it's safeguarding the value of it,
Danny Park: and also the scope of what you're trying to do. Because if you don't, stick to, or if you don't have these seven principles, you
Danny Park: one, you might definitely be breaking some laws or doing some activities that Don't generate value from that strategy because a strategy gives birth to implementation
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: and so i'll go into how this relates
Danny Park: the day to day that work that you guys do at work.
Danny Park: I would. I would say that some of you what you're working on. You have no idea what you're doing. You have no idea how it's generating value. You just doing it to collect the paycheck, which is fine. That's not your fault,
Danny Park: but from an organization strategy, perspective. I would say that's a very concern to me, because i'm like Okay,
Danny Park: my strategy be a data business. Whatever a strategy means. You have these principles and frameworks and all these other things in mind,
Danny Park: because collectively, when you think and integrate them.
Danny Park: You're increasing the value
Danny Park: to real the realization of solving that business problem. So the idea is that when you have a value-driven strategy,
Danny Park: you're going to create all these different implementation of projects or operations based on your core strategy. So in theory,
Danny Park: the more your strategy is maximizing value
Danny Park: through the integration of these frameworks and principles. Then, whatever you're executing on
Danny Park: right is already focused on
Danny Park: toward,
Danny Park: you know, maximizing the value for the organization. So i'll just jump to my last slide to kind of show this, you know. I will touch upon it after and flammer. Thank you for that question, right?
Danny Park: This is how we should be thinking about all these concepts, And this is how our mind should be thinking about as business leaders. We go okay. We have frameworks.
Danny Park: I know in the Nba program, because you know, frameworks principles all the time. But you know, when I was going to the Mba program to be honest with you.
Danny Park: Excuse me, I'd be honest with you normally tied that stuff to with me. No one really tied all that stuff up for me,
Danny Park: so I go here, the principal, and that was it like I'll read something memorized. And here in my principles i'm like I don't know how this relates. But you're asking me in abu dhabi e form. What is the principle of Yadda? Yadda yadda, i'm going to go, Amy, in the meeting my email, and pick D.
Danny Park: But if you ask me, hey,
Danny Park: this principle of Xyz, how it relates to the overall business strategy of the finance and transformation market for Goldman Sachs, i'm gonna go. What the hell are you talking about?
Danny Park: Because no one tied it together So the way this way that these things tied together is famous and principles, are you? They're They're framing up a a a point of view in your mind
Danny Park: how to really structure understand the principles behind
Danny Park: something. And in the business world. It's a solution,
Danny Park: right? Because you want to build solutions here. These are the implementation steps to build solutions.
Danny Park: So you So you go. Okay, Here are the principles that I want, based on all the frameworks that I know that exist
Danny Park: based on real things like the the big data, the these those are real things, the data life cycle. It's a real thing that data architecture. It's a real thing. So as a business leader for me to understand strategy have to know what these things are and how they relate.
Danny Park: So when I know, how do they relate? I know what my principles are meaning. What's the what are the things that I need to abide by? What's my like? I guess, in the religious sense, what are my ten commandments?
Danny Park: She'll never murder. I shall never covet. I shall never like those are your principles, because I know that if I abide by them i'm good. I'm safe
Danny Park: right. And also if I aspire to emulate all of them together. I'm going to go to heaven
Danny Park: again like I know loose analogy, but hopefully, that makes sense for some sorry I don't know why I got into like really just stuff. But hope hope you guys are understanding this right? So I know that if I bide by all the seven principles I, or or at least believe in trying to make them work.
Danny Park: The strategies I create
Danny Park: are already walking on water, but in other words, going back to our release analogy. They are good for heaven,
Danny Park: the maximizing value.
Danny Park: So, since they already meant structure to maximize value
Danny Park: in in business theory, all of our projects and activities and things that we do need to align to that strategy. So if our strategy is of good principles and they're already maximized, value. Anything that I possibly can do is Holy
Danny Park: Mike just going back to a religious analogy. Let's say, Jesus, You know I just got to pick Christianity. Jesus lived by Principal the Holy of Holy. Anything he did was of perfection. No matter what he did, He was bringing people back to life.
Danny Park: So that's what it means to align your tactics to your strategy
Danny Park: that that strategic building it's same for any type of strategy, right? So a good challenge for those in this class would be. If you're doing a day to day,
Danny Park: and you have no understanding of why you're doing it, and how that ties to your strategy. I would I would probably argue to you
Danny Park: that the strategy wasn't really built on the rigors of principles,
Danny Park: and those principles, if any, were not tied to realistic like reality things. Because how many times have you guys worked on things where you work on it also? And you realize that? Oh, My God! I don't have what I need to work on it.
We'll push it to the next step.
Danny Park: Well, because
Danny Park: they weren't based on real things,
Danny Park: and if they are based on real things, they were an integrated, and the student have to build principles off of them.
Plummer: It does answer your question. Yeah,
Danny Park: Yeah, it is. So. Thank you.
Danny Park: All right. So
Danny Park: So now let's go into. So now you have the principles. Right?
Danny Park: Then we have what's called
Danny Park: the data strategy components.
Danny Park: Right? So you have a data strategy working on data strategy. And, by the way, a data strategy
Danny Park: or anything strategic, it's done in iterations. That's why the agile mindset and the four values of agile. It's another framework that we should keep in mind. I don't have it here,
Danny Park: but that's something that we need to keep in mind.
Danny Park: Okay. So a data strategy you have, like a good skeletal framework of the principles. And you're like, Okay, I You know what I'm. Good. Let me start going into the components.
Danny Park: The components are the things that you need
Danny Park: to start
Danny Park: structuring
Danny Park: should be good enough to solve
Danny Park: will give you an idea of how to approach several different business problems that's facing the organization. So from my data strategy, perspective, right,
Danny Park: there are three main
Danny Park: right now they're more, but they're three main desired outcomes that many corporations are looking for in their data strategy. Right? There are three things.
Danny Park: The first thing is
Danny Park: right. It's obvious. And we talked about this before is, how do we stand up or create a machine learning or artificial intelligence mechanism? Right? In other words, How do how we need to build products
Danny Park: that solve business problems, leveraging, leveraging, machine learning and artificial intelligence? Right?
Danny Park: So that's one design outcome of a data strategy.
Danny Park: Another outcome of the same, of a data strategy that many organizations have is
Danny Park: hey? In our ecosystem of technologies and our tech stack, there are so many different applications. In fact, some of our team members are using multiple technology platforms to do their actual day to day job.
Danny Park: For example, our project that's going on.
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: what strategy do we need to have in place to streamline the downstream data consumption?
Danny Park: Right? So if you see here like, hey, how do we streamline this
Danny Park: the collection ingestion,
Danny Park: and get our a common data model
Danny Park: to make sure that we don't have fifty different technologies. That's being fed by one common data model
Danny Park: because
Danny Park: and
Danny Park: data life cycle framework.
Danny Park: Each of these technologies are creating more data that we have to house.
Danny Park: So if each platform is creating data
Danny Park: and all fifty platforms that say fifty of the data that they create. So as the fifty platforms, fifty of them create redundant data,
Danny Park: all that redundant data
Danny Park: is being captured and stored in a persistence layer. So how much waste? Lean six, Sigma, How much waste is in our persistence layer today.
Danny Park: So you see how wastes
Danny Park: you create one
Danny Park: that waste, will. It's like It's like What do you call it?
Danny Park: What's that name of that movie where it's like a Little Fuzzy
Danny Park: Garrett. I'm gonna I'm. I'm. I'm, i'm. I'm actually thinking of you right now. It's a little funny like Fuzzy Little Yeah, I'm Nicole you you took. You took Garrett's throne
Danny Park: so so it's like they're like freaking Gremlins like you. You have one waste, and it just like multiplies and feeds others right So we just talked about how, hey? You don't. You have fifty different applications.
Danny Park: But then we know that a real thing called a data life cycle is creating more data,
Danny Park: a real thank hold it persistently as capturing that data.
Danny Park: Then. Now we created more waste of of of capturing it. So over processing
Danny Park: um
Danny Park: over storage, right inventory. In other words, right. All the stuff is happening.
Danny Park: That's all because there is a data strategy. It's not. That's not thinking holistically through. Everything
Danny Park: so hopefully, i'm kind of shedding I'm peeling the onion back on data strategy a little bit to understand. Hopefully, everyone gets it in this class that every single one of you in this class are qualified to be strategists.
Danny Park: The only difference between you and I that you didn't understand what all this jargon meant
Danny Park: right, and no one just showed you how to tie these things together.
Danny Park: And in fact, in business, in this bit, in this industry that we call capitalism. I would argue to you that very few people know how to tie these things together,
Danny Park: all right. So So the components right? So So we talked about. So we talked about machine learning
Danny Park: as a business, as a as a business uh as a des outcome. We talked about streamlining applications as another business outcome. That's last business outcome. So they're more. But i'm gonna give the main three right now. That's hitting industry right now where we we're We're Ceos and Cfos. It's just like God damn it!
Danny Park: So I want to help us with this stuff, right? The third one is, it actually leads to common data model
Danny Park: right here, because i'll explain to you why, if there's some company out there who could ingest massive amounts of data and be able to create one common data model. I can service entire entry alone. Every the company on this planet will go away an instance
Danny Park: period,
Danny Park: all right. So Microsoft is. Microsoft is working on this heavily, heavily invested in this
Danny Park: I'm. Trying to figure out a universal data model for specific industries,
Danny Park: because their idea is, Hey, if we understand the industry and us, and we have a common data model that can service the entire industry. And we just have to go to the data sources. Then all these companies. We're building all these other products that are competing with us. We can get them out of the way because we have seamless data integration to our one technology that's going to feed off for that one industries data
Danny Park: that will do the analytics and machine learning everything else.
Danny Park: So that's a that's on people's minds right
Danny Park: is certainly so. Those are three main business problems. So what's the data? Strategic component? So what what it is is? So we have these three main business problems, right or desired outcomes
Danny Park: a component? Is these components fit into that base, that that that that that that that that that that that outcome
Danny Park: to give some structure around it. Right? So let's take uh the machine learning one, for example. Right? Say we A. It is our outcome. We want all of our data strategy is to be able to build a machine learning artificial intelligence platform. Okay, So what do we need? We need a business case,
Danny Park: right.
Danny Park: We need to see what the goals are. Okay for that machine learning, algorithm, What's the goal?
Danny Park: What are you trying to do? What industry, what function are we trying to get into what's What is our little goal for that specific solution?
Danny Park: Okay, What's the roadmap like? How? What? How are we going to build it? What are the requirements?
Danny Park: Right? What are the features? What are the functions?
Danny Park: When is it going to be released to the market? What's the role map for this platform to hit hit market
Danny Park: right? What are the risks? And so success factors
Danny Park: of not only building toward this platform, but once it hits the market. What does our risk of success look like?
Danny Park: Right? How much is going to cost us?
Danny Park: What metrics do we want in place to measure against our desired goals for that particular business, you know. Problem or solution, right business, I mean desired outcome.
Danny Park: All right. What team do we need to get that going,
Danny Park: and the background will be, What's the background behind the justification behind this that adds up in the business case. So the data strategic component as you're writing these things out. They have to. What aligned to what
Danny Park: the principles
Danny Park: you don't just write a business case on a whim.
Danny Park: If you just write a business case on a whim. How the hell do you know It's on strategy?
Danny Park: How
Danny Park: But guess what? How many business cases are in out there?
Danny Park: They are not back by strategy.
Danny Park: I I i'm, I'm point to at every freaking startup right now.
Danny Park: Right There's a reason why we have unicorns today.
Danny Park: Right? Yeah. So Akash, you got a question or
Akash Islam: oh, sorry, Professor, That was
Danny Park: all right. So
Danny Park: So let me talk about unicorns real quick. I'm gonna go in a little rain all right. There's a reason why tech stocks are taking a dump
Danny Park: right and and and startups are like failing left and right is because
Danny Park: way back in the day there was that actually, there was an actual strategy to our, You know the big tech exist because there was an actual strategy behind the business case
Danny Park: like there was an actual crisp, a desired outcome that was unique and new to the market.
Danny Park: Start us. These days are nothing more than just like reinvention of the same wheel,
Danny Park: which is a different color, bow on it.
Danny Park: So in the market, although in the beginning people throw money on it, because there is this human concept that was losing out
Danny Park: right
Danny Park: just because you fear of losing out. You throw money at it.
Danny Park: So that emotional response actually jumped valuation. Many startups.
Danny Park: But as people start to ask these questions right, the smart people in the room, us in this room are smart people here today.
Danny Park: People like us. We're asking the question, hey? Start up! What actually is your strategy?
Danny Park: Oh, uh, oh, what industry are you in uh tech? No finance, no accounting, No, no marketing uh, uh, who your competitors
Danny Park: don't know, but give me money
Danny Park: because they don't have any of this. We talked about
Danny Park: right? So data components very important. So let me go to the chat real quick to get a question.
Danny Park: Ft. Hex:
Danny Park: Yes,
Danny Park: yes. Well
Danny Park: sort of
Danny Park: you know what. Here's the best way to put strategy. Ftx related to what we're talking about. They did have a strategy, but, my God! He broke away from his principles,
Danny Park: that's I would say that's probably what you know. And that's it. Actually, that's a really good comment. I mean, from where, like you really got me like. That's a good Segue. Right? Um: yeah, It's actually worse than enron the the the the the impact, The market is um. So
Danny Park: about Ftx: right? They both a good point
Danny Park: as strategists. The thing that scares me, she scared me is the most right is something happening to where
Danny Park: the principal start breaking down
Danny Park: right? Um! But that's that's that's a good different.
Danny Park: That's probably like the strategy, one hundred and two type stuff. But I guess the point is just because you have the principles just like anything else we have to like. Make sure that we are abiding by it. So, because there might be some business unit out there
Danny Park: who starts building out who who who is introduced a business problem,
Danny Park: or or or create a desired outcome.
Danny Park: And
Danny Park: even though there's a strategy in place,
Danny Park: they end up writing
Danny Park: these components, but they never. They fail to check
Danny Park: the established principles of the strategy that's backing all of this stuff, right? So they have it a lot, too, so i'm usually more like a lot of big companies. You'll see a lot of the projects and things that go awry right. You kind of you kind of like. Oh, my God, I can't believe it did that. Well, it's because, like
Danny Park: really, there was an internal breakdown to the the rigor around,
Danny Park: and the discipline around, making sure that as they try to
Danny Park: the cheapest desired business outcome, they just forgot to check what the current strategy principles are.
Danny Park: So I guess I released everyone in this class like, for example, if you're doing something in your work that you have nobody, why, you're doing it, and you feel like It's not adding any value, or you don't know It's a black box. You can just ask the question, hey? This thing i'm doing right. Um! How's that tied to our principles of our strategy?
If you get like bait, Blank looks
Danny Park: email me. I'll be free to Pwc:
Danny Park: But like
Danny Park: it's it's important. Okay,
Danny Park: all right. So any other questions we have, or any other comments around what we cover so far hope this is interesting,
Danny Park: because that might be good. Yeah, Because I I find it very uh
Danny Park: my, my, my
Danny Park: my spine is tingling from the excitement.
Danny Park: Um, all right. So
Danny Park: any other questions nothing else.
Danny Park: All right. Let's keep going. So then we talked about the components.
Danny Park: Right? So then, that's now. Now let's talk about implementation, so we should never be acting upon or doing any implementation of anything unless we actually understand the strategy behind.
Danny Park: So everything we talked about before. And I I think I said this multiple times.
Danny Park: So what are the what are the general steps to implementing a data strategy? Right? Step? One, obviously is to find a business objective,
Danny Park: right? So you look, and you look at the business objective. And after you define the business objective, you you you asking yourself, hey? Who are the stakeholders? Right stakeholder? And else we talked about right,
Danny Park: what? What? The data management team. So the line business leaders, what a data engineer they designed it like. Why, what are your basically, your people component,
Danny Park: And what is the desired outcome?
Danny Park: Right So then, after you find the business objectives, you define it right now you start marrying it up to the principles, right? All of your data strategy. And then you start talking about,
Danny Park: identify the data sources. Right? So where are we doing this data sources? What data do we need By who, What are we doing with it? All these different things with data? Right? We We remember this now. We could start seeing how it lines to this it relates to this. It relates to this.
Danny Park: It relates to the seven principles, so how they all tie together
Danny Park: right? So as you identify the data sources that you need, and all the ingredients you need to move the data from one place to another
Danny Park: based on your business objective that you want to meet.
Danny Park: Right. Then you start identifying
use cases.
Danny Park: In other words, test subjects to start proving out that this business objective
Danny Park: can be solved with solutions, with the data
Danny Park: set that you have collected. Well, all the while members still still abiding by the Seven Principles of Data Quality Data acts. It did a management data content governance.
Danny Park: This is informed decision making it analytics,
Danny Park: right? So you test it out. So what what are we doing? What we what I call we test things out in iteration, agile mindset
Danny Park: and increments always finding something new, asking the right questions,
Danny Park: finding alignment,
Danny Park: I always testing,
Danny Park: checking, to see if we're. If we're we're, we're we're validating our assumptions right
Danny Park: then. Afterwards you prove out
Danny Park: by use cases.
Danny Park: Then you're ready to go ahead and start getting into formulating
Danny Park: the roadmap for the actual solution. So once you get to here by the time you get to step four, all the components are filled out in this roadmap here. That's the last thing that you detailing out. So while you're implementing the steps here,
Danny Park: you're knocking out the business case. You're knocking out the estimate. You're knocking out the goals right, which is part goals and background is part of
Danny Park: your
Danny Park: defining business objectives.
Danny Park: Right? You'll identify the risk of success factors, right
Danny Park: all those things you're doing,
Danny Park: and the team maturity by to to use cases and testing the after you do all that. Then you start role mapping. Now you're sure
Danny Park: to, hey?
Danny Park: We've implemented these steps.
Danny Park: We've proven out that what we want to try to solve here, and with the way we want it. We we want to approach it aligns to our seven principles,
Danny Park: which then, in in
Danny Park: in reality aligns to all the other frameworks that we have in our mind.
Danny Park: So now We' to go ahead and implement an execute
Danny Park: and create the actual technology project. I mean product or service, Right? Remember it doesn't always have to be a technology product. It also be a service.
Danny Park: Okay. So then, that's how all these relate together.
Danny Park: So this slide is this: this, this, this here. This flow is something that I have, you know, to something that I use day to day today,
Danny Park: as you know, leading a data strategy here.
Danny Park: What I do is I look at different business cases well desired outcomes
Danny Park: right, and there's plenty.
Danny Park: And then i'm reviewing. I'm looking at what they're doing right. Their approach. And the way they're identifying data sources the way they use case to set up, you know. Are they really? Do they really have the right use cases, or they trying to like just like to get a quick check mark
Danny Park: and slide on this slide something underneath, because they didn't want to do the rigor behind it. I'm looking at the components. So i'm making sure that what i'm reviewing
Danny Park: ultimately is aligning to the data strategy that we built out.
Danny Park: Okay. And if there is, I comes a point of time where i'm seeing a bunch of business objectives
Danny Park: where we need to do them.
Danny Park: But it's not aligning to some data principle that we created
Danny Park: right. So they say, under their data access. There is some
Danny Park: some um guiding principle we have that's categorized on their data access. And let's say all the business problems we're seeing in the market. I need to loosen up
Danny Park: that principle
Danny Park: right? I will do so right. Paste out off the discussion. So it's like a feedback mechanism,
Danny Park: right?
Danny Park: And that's what data that's, what strategies do is they build it? They frame it out. They build it, they and they help others implement it, and then they always continuously improve upon it. So a lot of constants we cover so far stakeholder management agile links to Sigma
Danny Park: big data, data, lifecycle, infrastructure. Everything we covered in this class
Danny Park: is basically
Danny Park: primes us up, all of us in this room to be data strategists,
Danny Park: any questions on anything I covered so far.
Danny Park: All right. So let's go to the last slide. Okay. So signs of a poor
Danny Park: or even missing
Danny Park: data strategy. And if you feel and these are just, this is not an exhaustive list.
Danny Park: These are the ones that came to my mind that they are top of my mind.
Danny Park: There's several others.
Danny Park: But
Danny Park: excuse me
Danny Park: for those in this room.
Danny Park: If you are checking more than one of these bullet boxes where you work. All that screams to you is, I have opportunity to make a name for myself. Let me see if I could frame out
Danny Park: a proof of concept data strategy based on what we covered today in class. And let me see if I could present this to someone,
Danny Park: because in the worst case scenario it highlights how you think like a strategist
Danny Park: as the worst thing that could happen,
Danny Park: and the best thing that could happen is you get selected to pursue
Danny Park: creating out a data strategy for your group
Danny Park: which would lead to promotions, phrases, bonuses, and resume points to where one day, since you are living data strategy, you could go ahead and interview for a straggl at Google, Facebook, Meta, Jpm. Google, et cetera, et cetera.
Danny Park: Okay. So here the post here are the signs of port data strategy
Danny Park: because I i'm gonna tackle them. And i'm going to use the system information system component
Danny Park: component um
Danny Park: uh framework and laid out that way. So the people side.
Danny Park: Okay, if you lack.
Danny Park: So if there is a lack of clear roles and responsibilities leading to redundant work or work not assigned. So, for example,
Danny Park: if you're working on something and you have no idea what you're doing, I don't know what your role or responsibilities Are
Danny Park: you just just doing work just to do work you just told to do it. We do really understand, like, Hey, what are my limits? What's my authority here? What's my role. So role and responsibility is actually giving you a level of your authority with network that you're doing.
Danny Park: Can you delegate it? Can you not?
Danny Park: You do with it at all. Are you allowed to do it? I mean I should you do it. Are you supposed to? You should be doing it?
Danny Park: Maybe your magic gave you the wrong work to do,
Danny Park: and, in fact, you shouldn't be really doing it
Danny Park: and violate some law who knows right. So if you don't know your rules and responsibilities.
Danny Park: Red Flag Number One.
Danny Park: Oh, one of the red flags.
Danny Park: Okay, there are redundant skill sets across roles and functions. So what does what does that mean?
Danny Park: So that will mean, Let's say,
Danny Park: I say, that we're in a I I was like I got to stop picking on taxes. I promise myself next semester. I'm going to use marketing
Danny Park: as the the guinea pig in my analogy. So this is this young I stick to tax. I mean this semester. So taxes. Let's talk about in tax,
Danny Park: Let's say, in tax. You have a team working on a tax advisement right? And that tax advisement
Danny Park: group
Danny Park: is
Danny Park: asking for
Danny Park: accuracy of taxable income
Danny Park: for that jurisdiction,
Danny Park: and it's tax liability for
Danny Park: Australia and Canada. Right? It's just asking for those two things.
Danny Park: Okay, So
Danny Park: let's say I build a team.
Danny Park: And this team I have
Danny Park: three people
Danny Park: and all three people
Danny Park: our Cpas,
Danny Park: and they know how to do taxable income,
Danny Park: right?
Danny Park: But they have never worked on
Danny Park: a Canadian
Danny Park: tax return.
Danny Park: But two of them have done Germany
Danny Park: right?
Danny Park: So what's wrong there?
Danny Park: Right from a lead perspective.
I don't have the right talent. Mix
Danny Park: because I don't need three people. Cpas
Danny Park: and people. Cpas are expensive, so I over staff with Cpas unnecessarily.
Danny Park: And in fact,
Danny Park: us American taxable income.
Danny Park: They don't know Canadian
Danny Park: tax returns. So I missed that my team, so I've redundant skill sets across my roles and functions, and in fact, i'm because of my redundancy. I'm missing a course. Skill says no one knows how to do it. Goddamn Canadian return.
Danny Park: So i'm probably going to do very poor job of meeting this the client service expectation.
Danny Park: So where does that? Why does that go back? Because in my data strategy, if I was, if I, withholding, holding to the seven principles
Danny Park: and governance would tell me.
Danny Park: I'll be able to back in to say that, hey?
Danny Park: I have to make sure that my people component is staff with the right skill sets.
Danny Park: So I have to be able to forecast to some degree that I have enough people the right skill system moving around. So that's that's how that relates
Danny Park: to possibly not aligning or not having a missing um
Danny Park: data strategy component.
Danny Park: Okay.
Danny Park: Alright, So another. Oh, see a chat.
Danny Park: Get up Nine utilization. Yup! Yup!
Danny Park: Absolutely. So next one
Danny Park: next red flag for a ported a strategy. If your efforts that you that you that the things that you're doing, or the thing that your group is doing it like kind of leads to nowhere
Danny Park: like you do all this work.
Danny Park: But at the end of the end. They say you have your annual review, and no one tells you that how your efforts tied to to the, to the, to the to the strategy of the business.
Danny Park: Right? It's like, Hey,
Danny Park: hey? Daniel and T. And Daniel, You've been part of a team that was tasked to do or execute this,
Danny Park: this business
Danny Park: project or operation to the this, to to meet this desired outcome,
Danny Park: and this business design outcome was X
Danny Park: and This X was contributing to
Danny Park: twenty-five of the company's revenue. So your team was directly influential uh to to succeed or achieve our business strategy.
Danny Park: Awesome annual review,
Danny Park: great motivating factor
Danny Park: versus Hey, Daniel,
Danny Park: you did a good job.
Danny Park: You are here against your peers and your raise is this thanks? Have a good day. See you next year.
Danny Park: Right? That second part
Danny Park: and your review feedback
Danny Park: that gives you a lot of red flags,
Danny Park: right? Which then will lead to a lot of other waste
Danny Park: right, which is high turnover, which is not utilized talent or idle. It'll work right. So
Danny Park: keep that in mind. A good data strategy or a good strategy. Has the people component in mind
Danny Park: that ensures inspiration and management together.
Danny Park: I remember what I said when I was up when i'm up here I broke the three pillars, and I put people process tech data across, and I was writing out literally who I needed in the processes around it,
Danny Park: because I knew that if I can't retain my talent,
Danny Park: and I have no one to do my machine learning my strategy fails.
Danny Park: Remember all this stuff ties back. That's what makes it. Good business leader versus not a good physically to understand how all this works holistically.
Danny Park: It connects with us. It has a really good strategy a comprehensive value-driven strategy,
Danny Park: all right, and the last one is lack of understanding of this outcome. And we talked about this. If you have no idea what your if you don't know your your mission statement of your department and your organization, or what the strategies for your company, th the severe things going on
Danny Park: for sure.
Danny Park: All right. So let's go to the data component.
Danny Park: And this is where you probably find the biggest, like like red flags around, there being a poor data strategy, so like some of the other components, it's kind of like
Danny Park: like under the rug there might be. But if you see this like it's for sure, like. There's no one in your organization the organization thinking about the data strategy at all. So, for example, there's no golden source of truth.
Danny Park: It kind of relates to the group project. Oh, as a name, go ahead.
Zainab Adekola: It's Zena. Sorry. Sorry. No, No problem. Um. I was just gonna like agree with that statement, because where I work as well, well like the field that I've been working in for while I've seen that they don't really invest in technology and like the public and people really
Zainab Adekola: software, because key functions and key things that technology can do and can help they just. I I don't know what it is, but for some reason they don't see it, and they guess they just don't want to improve on it, either, and people are really being affected by it.
Danny Park: No, thank you for that feedback, but I think we know that. I think we know why now, because
Danny Park: there's no one thinking about the real things,
Danny Park: and then they don't care.
Danny Park: You know what. That's a great, you know. Great! That's a great comment that you said, because I I get this a lot um, and it's it could be true. But
Danny Park: what I've learned over time is that sometimes people don't care because they don't understand
Danny Park: right, because when people understand something, they tend to
Danny Park: feel more and be less dismissive.
Danny Park: Right, because because not caring, being dismissive sometimes as a defense against our embarrassment, that we don't know something that we should.
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: what I sometimes translate it is
Danny Park: that
Danny Park: where I sometimes, if I talk to executives,
Danny Park: they clearly dismissed.
Danny Park: But they're not evil or mean people.
Danny Park: But what I recognize sometimes is that oh, there's being dismissive because they don't want to feel like they're
Danny Park: not being in their minds. They don't want to show that they're incompetent in something because they have to uphold a certain level of personal brand.
Danny Park: Yeah, Yeah. So so. But that to us as Mbas, that's where we make our opportunity.
Danny Park: So when we feel an executive, so go back to our stakeholder analysis. If we know someone is highly influential, and if we recognize it to being dismissive of a topic. You know what i'm doing. I'm building something out on a Powerpoint deck on my own time, and when I go grab lunch with that person just to have a network. I'm like, hey? You know, Last time we had a talk
Danny Park: I feel like you had some. You know you need some help with this. But here's something I did over the weekend to wait. Is it? Okay? If I show you,
Danny Park: I done this,
Danny Park: and immediately boom good Graces radar. I'm the best. I'm. Danny needs to be on the project. Get him on the next project and boom, boom, boom!
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: as good business leaders. That's a part of what they recognize. So leadership is not a rank based thing, and leadership is a is it? It goes across all ranks.
Danny Park: Right? So I kind of give a story about the military, like the marine cor, we don't have this concept of rank based leadership.
Danny Park: We have. What we say is in the absence of leadership. Take charge. That's our motto when it comes to building our leaders in the Marine Corps. So what that says is what we're telling. Marines is, hey? Just because you have a general
Danny Park: that general strides away from leadership or responsibility. There's no reason why you can't take up that mantle and assume that leadership role,
Danny Park: because a rank is nothing and rank is an imaginary thing. We made that up. We
Danny Park: right just based on how long we work. But how how silly does that sound like you? You get a default, Your leadership really? Just because you haven't been around long enough.
Danny Park: That's a very, that's a that. In fact, that's very silly way to look at it. So I I would challenge everyone in this class because everyone has the ability to do it to where, when you're recognizing these dismissive things,
Danny Park: use the things that we learned in class, and you learned in other classes to bring that tied back together and just show what you did,
Danny Park: and
Danny Park: sometimes they might not go anywhere. But sometimes it goes to the great places absolutely. But thank you for sharing that as an app.
Danny Park: Um, All right. So
Danny Park: let's keep going here. I know we're almost on time.
Danny Park: Okay. So data no golden source of truth,
Danny Park: meaning
Danny Park: right. It happens all the time Right? I I just laugh because, like it happens all the time.
Danny Park: Um!
Danny Park: And usually it's a a good way to know, like your your data system doesn't really, or you technologies that have like a
Danny Park: No, i'm gonna take it back.
Danny Park: I'm not gonna say this to me. I was gonna say it was too aggressive. What I would say is
Danny Park: a lot of thoughtful technologies that abide by a data strategy when you do work, what does it give you? It gives you an order trail of the data,
Danny Park: right time, Who? When? Where?
Danny Park: So when you see a a technology platform that gives you an audit trail of every time a data was processed or sent from one place to another. That's because that data platform, when they were building out the roadmap for that data platform. One of the requirements they were building in was abiding by their data strategy, principles
Danny Park: of data, quality data, access data management.
Danny Park: See? It's a point. I hope I'm highlighting this. How important the principals they just your Ag are
Danny Park: okay. Um. Next one over processing or rework due to data and accuracy. So basically you you pull data, and the thing is wrong.
Danny Park: The data is wrong, outdated right? So clearly there's no data strategy behind that
Danny Park: uh unmanageable infrastructure. I'd be talked about before right if you have several different multiple applications, and they're all creating data because lifecycle says they do It's real. They have to store it because it's also real, And that means that there's a bunch of waste going on there too much data you collecting? Right? So then, then, your infrastructure becomes unmanageable.
Danny Park: Okay,
Danny Park: sort of uh relates to our group project
Danny Park: this joint, the data service delivery,
Danny Park: right? What does that mean? That means that there are multiple applications, But they don't talk to one another. They're not integrated. So the data services are siloed.
Danny Park: So what does that mean a lot of manual work to review
Danny Park: and check for accuracy of data?
Danny Park: Right? Because the fact that you have no data service and disjointed it defeats the principle of data management data, access to data quality,
Danny Park: right? And they come with some audits or the disappointing. Or so. We talked about this like basically you. Key is an audit trail. This is a traceability, you know where the data came from,
Danny Park: all right next lever. So now we talked about data. So if you see in your data that you're working with, you see one of one or many of these, you probably don't have either strategy
or no one is talking about it.
Danny Park: Technology lever.
Danny Park: There are platforms in your your. You're in a technology working on it, but it doesn't do some critical need that you have. So you have to do that work outside of the system.
Danny Park: So you have to do it manually, and you have to do whatever you did manually. Let's see on excel. You have to upload that back into your platform.
Danny Park: Okay, So that's one key indicator that you don't have a data strategy, because because if it's data access and data management, because if you're using platform to do something, they get pulling down data to work on it manually, then pull it back up. You got some real issues.
Danny Park: Well, actually all three, three, four, and five,
Danny Park: all right.
Danny Park: Platforms have redundant functions and keep with
Danny Park: platforms with redundant functions and capabilities. So i'll give an example. So this is notorious and tax tax technology.
Danny Park: So some firms have multiple tax technology platforms
Danny Park: and these platforms
Danny Park: essentially they really do the same thing. But each platform just happens to do one thing really well.
Danny Park: So what most companies do is they'll just like they somehow use one platform to that one thing that does it really Well, they pull that data out, and they put into the next system and do the next function really really well.
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: because you're providing this cafeteria style of capabilities across several different platforms, you're not creating a standard approach to how to get the work done.
Danny Park: Okay, Emily, go ahead. I see you and off mute. Yeah.
Danny Park: Oh, never mind.
Emily U: It's an accident. I do have a question. Um. I was wondering. I know we touched on it a little bit before, I think, with Ftx and uh
Danny Park: um, and maybe data governance. But um! Where is like ethics? I guess, like, Where is that ethics Yup business at this sits in governance. So so company most firms have a actual Ethics committee
Danny Park: that touches upon. So Their Their scope is broad, but it's it's It's a very it's a very uh important.
Danny Park: It's a very important function, because
Danny Park: Essex actually drives the culture
Danny Park: of the organization and the cultures give birth to strategies. Yeah, So it's like we didn't cover it here. But business ethics is very important, very important. Um
Danny Park: topic.
Danny Park: A lot of like a lot of Phds and people with like religious backgrounds actually advise on ethics for many boards.
Danny Park: Yeah. So yeah, it's It's It's pretty cool. Um!
Danny Park: I don't know if he still works there. I was like
Danny Park: he was in his seventies when I was going
Danny Park: to Peru, so he's probably retired by now, But I had a really great is Is Donald Shepherd still around anyone know that name? Donald Shepherds?
Danny Park: Now?
Danny Park: Okay, Probably not. Okay. Silence is no Okay, but Donald Shepherd is Professor Professor Shepherd. I took business ethics with him. He blew my mind.
Danny Park: He blew my mind out of the order. He was such a great inspiration, and just to talk about ethics all the time, and really helped me rationalize what he meant to be a leader.
Danny Park: Um, but it was. Yeah, but business ethics are very. It's a very good course for anyone to take, but i'll take it back that way. Let me take a real fact, it depends on who's teaching it.
Danny Park: So twenty one one take business ethics.
Danny Park: I don't know if it's elective or core, but regardless it's those are all the topics where it really takes someone with experience, a lot of research
Danny Park: to be able to teach that. Well.
Danny Park: Oh, it's required, or I hope it's taught by the right person.
Danny Park: It's like,
Danny Park: Imagine Dennis Rodman teaching and ethics.
Danny Park: All right. So okay, that's
Danny Park: Oh, where we were. Okay. So then, okay, So we're at next. Okay, we have platforms, redundant function capabilities that the next is functions and capabilities spread across multiple technologies. Right? So basically,
Danny Park: yeah, the same system multiple times.
Danny Park: And
Danny Park: you don't know why.
Danny Park: But uh, actually, we do know why, is because when they were the procurement side of the house had no idea what the data strategy was. So they kept buying capabilities and functions that already existed in the company
Danny Park: That buying un. Oh, sorry about that buying unnecessary
Danny Park: technologies actually fall on the governance. Your governance should have a process that controls how or when things are procured.
Danny Park: So I know we didn't cover that
Danny Park: um,
Danny Park: but that's where it fall, fall on the governance, right? So
Danny Park: that's one. If you see multiple like functions, capabilities for the costs, multiple technologies. That's a big problem. The last one technology is lack of data integrations cost platform. So we kind of covered it in the disjointed data service, which kind of relates to lack of data integrations across platforms.
Danny Park: Okay, So basically the group project.
Danny Park: All right, Let me check the chat real quick. Oh, that's wrong. Yeah. All right. Process,
Danny Park: All right.
Danny Park: Number one in process, if you're working on something,
Danny Park: and
Danny Park: that deliverable that you're working on
Danny Park: is being reviewed
Danny Park: like
Danny Park: literally like four or five times
Danny Park: by different people,
Danny Park: there's something going wrong there.
Danny Park: And again, for anyone who's in a tax practice, or who's or is a tax account?
Danny Park: Well, in turn for tax. You know exactly what i'm talking about,
Danny Park: right? And though the people aren't crazy no taxes that difficult, it's because there's no strategy around delivering tax work
Danny Park: all right. Multiple decision points the logical phase gate. So what that means is
Danny Park: decision should happen when
Danny Park: things are ready to me like you have to be ready to make a decision, so I guess the best example I would give is like
Danny Park: I'll give like a college one.
Danny Park: Let's say you and your group of friends want to go out
Danny Park: right, and you want to go to like the most exclusive club in New York, right? But you haven't, really.
Danny Park: But like, when will you decide to go to that. Try to get this exclusive clump
Danny Park: like six Pm. In the middle of class
Danny Park: or not. Six Pm. This is college I don't know, may right like tall payment, a little class or nine Pm. When you look at all your friends and you go yuck,
Danny Park: they will never get it right. So when you make so you make a decision at the end Right? You see all the data, all the variables and the data collection, you know, like you collect all the facts
Danny Park: that's relevant
Danny Park: and accurate. Then you make a decision. You don't make a decision before, because if you made a decision at twelve Pm. And you go, Hey, yo! Let's show up at. I don't know Exclusive Club, Abc. And your friends show up, and half of them are in like a tennis gear. And you like what the hell
Danny Park: when negative, so like bad decision, right? So like that's like That's like a fun analogy. Hopefully, it makes sense. But also the point is in that process. Your decision point that you make what that decision point. Activity needs to happen when everyone's ready to not only make the decision, but agree to it.
Danny Park: Right. How many times have we been on a meeting with? Someone makes a decision, and someone's like completely like
Danny Park: the like, saying, No, we don't want to do it,
Danny Park: because
Danny Park: the person making the decision didn't have all the facts
Danny Park: right, or let's say there's someone who wasn't on the meeting, and the decision was made.
Danny Park: But that person who was not who left off the meeting was a key driver to implementing that decision.
Danny Park: So why would you make that decision in that meeting if you knew that person that you needed wasn't there,
Danny Park: so that's not. That's not a logical place to put that decision point
Danny Park: right. That's another. That's another example of why you There's no strategy. Because, like, here's another. I guess all of you should have experienced this by now.
Danny Park: I'm sure you've been on meetings with someone just made a decision
Danny Park: right with that rule, discussion, or anything else like a decision was made right.
Danny Park: That's because there was a strategy behind. This is a strategy. A strategy tells you
Danny Park: what governs when decisions should be made,
Danny Park: and when that should be made.
Danny Park: So It kind of relates to our project, too,
Danny Park: all right, upstream and downstream process that this jointed. So. In other words,
Danny Park: like they're people working at different processes, they clearly related. But like a example of this joint, there would be one group finish that work ahead it like early,
Danny Park: but then the other group is not ready for some reason. So there's a disjointed process upstream and dancing process.
Danny Park: There's some something going on that's not integrating and streamlining those two upstream downstream,
Danny Park: right? So there's some waste in between happening. It could be idle transportation over processing, or it could be several things
Danny Park: right. But there's some waste in between the upstream and downstream. So that's another example of There might be poor uh strategy happening
Danny Park: multiple exceptions to the general process. In other words. Reason why there's multiple exceptions to a general rule is because no one understands what's going on.
Danny Park: All right. We kind of talked about this in our um process analytics
Danny Park: right? Especially if you don't have. If it is a business. I'm going on. I don't have a root cause
Danny Park: so like what people are building is. They're building processes on top of processes to solution it
Danny Park: Right? He's like. If you see this, do that, and if you see that you do that if you see that you do that so like there, there's a process, but it is ten symptoms, and you're like, hey? For each symptom. If you see it. You do this other thing instead of saying, Hey, What's the real cause of all these symptoms?
Danny Park: Because if you find the root cause of all these sentences you eliminated. Then you don't have ten exceptions. You have one process
Danny Park: that's efficient, with no exceptions.
Danny Park: So a strategy
Danny Park: right
Danny Park: under
Danny Park: governance
Danny Park: and quality
Danny Park: will help you drive to the root cause to help you not have so many exceptions to a general rule.
Danny Park: Okay. And the last one process that has no business justification. So basically if you're working on something and you have like that, it shouldn't be there anymore
Danny Park: because it's based on an old rule.
Danny Park: Yeah, I go back to tax at the tax example.
Danny Park: About way back in the day
Danny Park: you had to actually physically print out your tax returns and file them in a file cabinet
Danny Park: right?
But that was an actual rule,
Danny Park: but in two thousand and twenty-two,
Danny Park: since we have something called Xblr,
Danny Park: right,
Danny Park: an xml file formats, which the which the Irs readily accept. There is no need to print a physical return anymore.
Danny Park: There's no rule. It's optional. Now,
Danny Park: as long as you have the the physical copy or the the digital copies of the Xml that was filed.
Danny Park: And the Irs is, you know, um message back to you in the Xml format that it has received, and accept that your your return. You are safe Legally, it proven You filed your tax return
Danny Park: right.
Danny Park: So now, these days of some team. There's some teams that I know of that still print out their returns, and I asked them, Why do you print this? Out They go. Oh, well, because it's proof. Oh, I go. Okay, How do you? How do you know that? That thing you print out is accurate that no one mess with it. They go. Well, how do they mess with it? Okay. So I take the Pdf. And I manually right over.
Danny Park: I edit the Pdf. And I text it, and then I I really save it over. So it looks like that. You can't. You can't see it So a mess with it.
Danny Park: Did I ask him. Okay, I just mess with that Pdf:
Danny Park: So I did some fraud.
Danny Park: Hold up the Xml. You got that you file to the Irs. Can I mess with that they go. No. So which one do you think the I is going to ask for when you go into? And when you go into a a disagreement.
Danny Park: The Pdf. That you do it, or you can, Doctor, or the xml they sent you.
Danny Park: Oh, Xml: good. So why are you printing the Pdf for
Danny Park: right data strategy,
Danny Park: right? When we go back to that, we go back to our seven right
Danny Park: content and management.
Danny Park: Why am I printing? I don't need it. That's the content I don't need, and I know how to store it,
Danny Park: which is safer and more reliable.
Danny Park: So why am I printing a Pdf.
Danny Park: Right goes back to my strategy again. It goes back to strategy right
Danny Park: Next last one is measure
Danny Park: seven. Fifteen is the last one.
Danny Park: Basically it's common sense stuff, like, if you, if you don't know what you're measuring, you don't have okrs and kpis that tell you if you on track or not, you don't have A. You don't have a strategy. There's no way there's no way.
Danny Park: Next one
Danny Park: measures that cannot be traced to source. Right. Let's say you have a bunch of like results. But you don't know how those results are being calculated,
Danny Park: or or where the data came from to calculate those measures Right? That's another port side of data strategy because you can't trust the Kps at that point.
Danny Park: So it's like You're not measuring at all
Danny Park: right.
Danny Park: Lack of kpis. Also, the first one was. It's not lining to business strategy. And basically the lack of kpis. And last one was last. One is rough order of magnitude. So what is rough order of magnitude, the acronym being Rom. So Rom,
Danny Park: our high level estimates that you give when you have no idea what the business problem is, or how to solve it. So it's like my! It's like me calling a plumber and saying, Hey, I have a word leak in my bath, and how much is going to cost me, and diploma is going to be like I don't know five dollars to to ten thousand dollars. I have no idea I got. I need more details, so that range estimate is called the rough order of magnitude. So if your estimates that you have for your
Danny Park: business case
Danny Park: right, and your estimate. Your budget estimates are on the rough order of magnitude.
Danny Park: You Don't, have you? You're not abiding by the principles of sound data strategy at all.
Danny Park: All right. So that's the signs of poor data strategy. Just again a limited, a limited set, not exhaustive, but some red flags. So i'll stop here
Danny Park: any questions on anything I went over today.
Bo Young Choi: Um, it's more of a comment, so I so you know, for, like it could be a little bit our topic. But it's information system like Could that also be a type of data strategy? Because I see, like the components you listed here.
Bo Young Choi: My other class, when we're learning about like. Is it also list how like the components of what makes a good information system is when structure technology has some people are in are like codependent. So everything kind of needs to like flow, and I just still had this slide also has the same points
Danny Park: as a makes up on the information system. No: sorry. So these. So these are the components of the information system.
Danny Park: The information system
Danny Park: is
Danny Park: that framework is is trying to align these components to one another, right?
Danny Park: The data strategy
Danny Park: is a set of principles that ensures that when you're building out your information system that there is alignment between them.
Danny Park: Okay, So when there is misalignment, some of the information, some components. That's a sign that the data strategy is non-existent, because the theory goes that if you have a sound data strategy that is structuring all these into one integrated value-driven
Danny Park: um structure. Then all of your information system components should be aligning with one another. So
Danny Park: your question might be, hey? Even if I don't have a data strategy, if I abide by these
Danny Park: for components and align them. Is that the same thing as strategy? The answer is, No, because you can build
Danny Park: information system strategy. That's not tied to the business strategy,
Danny Park: right? Because it doesn't mean that just because you're aligning the the the the components together,
Danny Park: the business purpose of your information system, the business case, and the goals
Danny Park: might not tie back to What? You what the company really desires. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, you're welcome,
Danny Park: Crystal. Go ahead. Yeah.
crystal.warner: Uh: So I had a question from uh the last slide, which was ten in reference to the process. Um, in which you stated Um, you know you would try to avoid, or rather a port data. Strategy has multiple review points. So in order to kind of enhance that or condense it or make it more efficient, Um, would you say that Um, instead of having the multiple review sessions, you can either eliminate some or is it up to like,
crystal.warner: not lower level? But i'm gonna say, like a lower level staff manager to kind of go through and um weed out most of the relevant data, for then the um, like higher ups, to approve or look at that information instead, which would eliminate some of the review
Danny Park: points or process. Yes, the latter. Yeah, there is. So
Danny Park: to your point. What usually happens is multiple viewpoints are usually established, because there's two things going on. Either they don't they, they don't trust the data
Danny Park: or and not trusting data means that it could be several things you don't know where it comes from. They don't know who's giving it to them, and things like that. The second mistrust is, and the people,
Danny Park: meaning that they don't, you know they might be. They might feel like they're two junior, or maybe that's like qualified, or they might actually question their competency and doing actual data processing right? So
Danny Park: the multiple viewpoints to tackle it to your point would be, you know, definitely going more upstream in the process that downstream with the reviewers are but going more upstream and building around like some framework there to ensure that the data is more of higher quality. You have Tracey building the data. And
Danny Park: a really great thing that that that drives down review points lower is
Danny Park: and use a simple example. Let's say someone a a junior level person is working on a a, a processing, a calculation file.
Danny Park: All they really need to do is provide an aud of what they did
Danny Park: so provide some traceability in the calculations. So when
Danny Park: when the fact that there is a governance or some standard put into place that tells
Danny Park: a a team that, hey? When you're working our standard on this team is if you're working on this type of work paper, you will follow this standard traceability format,
Danny Park: having that rule alone actually provide some comfort into the people who are trying to review this stuff. So they want to review it less because they trust the system more overall. So that's one thing they can do to kind of lower the review points.
crystal.warner: Does that. Does that answer your question, Crystal. Yeah, Yeah, I would say that answers my question, but it does bring up another um, I guess. Quick question. So in reference to that, would you say? Then it's kind of like a manual Um, if that makes sense kind of like a step play by play which would provide that traceability for the higher great question. No, you. So in this, in our current
Danny Park: state of technology, um access accessibility, there will be a project to automate that
Danny Park: because a lot of companies start automating audit like they automate ways to diminish the review points through, you know, like all tracks or so, all tricks for those who have have experiences and those who don't. I kind of explain real quick reason. The value of alterx is that whatever you do,
Danny Park: the source file
Danny Park: is left untouched,
Danny Park: so
Danny Park: you'll have acts the golden source of truth, no matter what right it's like in excel, unless someone hands you the actual go like the file that was never touched. Most people will have access to it. But Ulster X. What it does is it keeps that pristine
Danny Park: and untouched. So you know that you, whatever at the end. If something goes crazy, at least you have the raw data, right? So you kind of trace it back. And what all tricks does is every calculation that it does it all the trails, every single thing, and you could build in rules. Validation rules that give you red flag when something's not going well.
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: there's a several different ways to build it in. You could use ultrax. You could use the actual platforms now. You could build in requirements and platform to, to, to give you the art of trails, but
Danny Park: to crystal. To answer your question,
Danny Park: you should avoid manual, if you can,
Danny Park: and always side up always to go to side of automating it.
Danny Park: Um. But if you don't have access to it, then just yeah, you could do a manual, I guess. Yeah,
Danny Park: All right any other questions
Danny Park: awesome folks. So if there are, though, for the questions, I hope everyone had a
Danny Park: obviously a fun session, Hope is interesting. Hopefully, it's helpful.
Danny Park: Um! Have a great Thanksgiving. Have a great weekend, and I will talk to everyone on the other side of Turkey Day.
Danny Park: All right. Have a great um night. Everybody see. Ya,
Nathalie Liquigan: hi, Professor, I was just hoping I can ask you something about the um, the Gap analysis.
Nathalie Liquigan: Yeah. I was just hoping to ask you something about the Gap Analysis. Um, while you're here.